First of all, now, about breakwater, what do you
mean it's an altogether different principle or
principle conceived of differently than it has
been in the past? Well, in the past, the whole
matter of defending, let's say, a coast or a harbor
against waves had been to pile in a lot of rock. This
does some absorption, some reflection. It
interferes with sand flow. It can be disastrous.
It's irreversible. There's no way to really tear
it down once it's built. We see these kinds of
disasters all around the world where it's set up
waves of beach erosion. There's a static approach
of sitting up there obstructing the waves by
putting in a massive chunks of rocks, sometimes
wired together and cemented together. This is a
much more subtle way of destroying waves, which is
to set something that causes the waves to destroy
themselves. It's driven by the pressure field and
acts against the orbits of the wave. And what you
want is the least dense material rather than the
most dense material. You want it to have the
greatest freedom of motion rather than the least
freedom of motion. And it truly degrades the waves
into eddies, rather than reflecting it to a great
extent, you see. This is why the approaches to some
coasts, to breakwaters, are rather dangerous,
because you have these highly reflected waves. So
it's a totally different principle. But I don't
really limit it to that. The whole business of
intervening into the phase of the wave rather than
the orbits of the wave is quite a different
approach. You have linked yourself into
something that is, in principle, much more
energetic. That isn't quite the right way to say
it, but rather that The velocities involved are
much higher than they are. The rate at which the
wave form is going across the ocean is much higher
than the rate at which the water is moving. Even
Leonardo da Vinci understood that quite well. I
mean, what I mean even. Leonardo da Vinci
understood that one quite well. But see, if you can
link things into this rapid motion of the velocity
of the wave form across the ocean. It's orders of
magnitude greater than the actual water motion.
Most things, like a rubble mount breakwater,
intervene with a orbital motion, a smaller
motion. This intervenes into the wave form
itself. If you can link that in so you get energy out
also, then you've done a much more effective job.
You ordinarily only see this kind of linkage in the
case of surfboarding, for example. And then it's
much degraded because it's been much slowed down.
But the velocities that are involved, you can
already see are very high. But if you can do this in
the open sea, you see you're talking about
velocities of 40 and 50 miles an hour. You've
linked to the pressure gradient.
I know one can't say when an idea first came to him
along this way. I realize that. But roughly when
did you begin to work on the problem in terms of...
Which one? The problem of... The breakwater? The
breakwater problem.
Well, I'd always had this in mind, more or less, in a
kind of a vague, unformed, diaphanous way, since
I'd worked on the torpedo net problem. And every
time I saw buoys that
were partly hauled down, I was always impressed by
their tremendously erratic motion. And then how
am I talking about it in class? And I said, why don't
we just really see, why don't somebody take the
project to really seeing how one of these spheres
behaves and how much energy it really, from the
wave, it really does dissipate. And one of the kids
in the class took it up and looked at it and decided,
yes, it was out of phase and did dissipate 30 or 40
times the energy that it would if it were held
rigidly. And then he dropped it, and then another
kid took it up and really designed it through. And
he now has his PhD and is working for the state,
building these things for the state of
California, investigating that whole
potential.
So how do you exactly say when such a thing comes up?
You see, I began to understand some years ago when
we were working with
deep-sea moorings, where we made some deep-sea
moorings that survived out in the Pacific three or
four years in more than 3,000 fathoms of water. But
one of the reasons these survived was that they did
behave something in this fashion. And this
allowed them, in a storm, to dodge the high waves.
They moved around the high waves rather than over
them. See, in a storm, the sea is a kind of
stochastic topography of rapidly moving crests,
of short crests. And if you now put a buoy out there
that is hauled down strongly and doesn't weigh
much, it threads its way between these crests in a
complicated pattern. So it never gets hit by the
highways. It dodges them automatically.
And...
And it's clear this energy is coming from the
waves, and that it's considerably more than just
if the buoy were floating there and the waves were
dragging against it. So all of this sort of fits
together, and you finally decide, well, maybe
this is a real way to go. So
allow me to try it. So in other words, a whole
combination of ideas, you would argue, in terms of
science, experimenting with both small things
and large things, drifts you into handling big
problems. And that's poorly put. Let me try it this
way. It's that you begin with dealing with
specifics, and then all of a sudden I look up and
you're... And you observe something that's
irrelevant, perhaps, to the specifics you're
looking at. And you store that away. And it's an
experience. OK, now, like the iceberg, for
example. The other day, for instance, I was down on
the beaches in Southern California, in Baja,
California. And there's loads of sand dollars.
And the sand is eroding by wind. They're on the
beach, in the dry beach. And the sand is being
driven very rapidly. And these sand dollars, all
of them, slowly tilt up on little pinnacles of sand
and take an attitude very much like the living
organism does in the ocean. Well, now that's
strange. You look at 100 or 200 of these things all
standing up at the same angle, little pinnacle of
sand behind them, holding them in that position.
And this is much the position, although they're
not without the pinnacle of sand, that you see them
in the actual ocean. And you begin to wonder how
much of this is mediated through just the
hydrodynamic shape of the sand dollar, you see,
all facing into the wind, all with their top sides
towards the wind, all at about almost 60 degrees
inclination, all of them sitting there in like an
array of these. And sooner or later, maybe, I get a
chance to maybe do some experiments on various
sorts of creatures that live in a high, strong wave
current regime, like sand dollars, bismuth
clams, and whatnot. Is their shape a particular
hydrodynamic shape that gives it desirable
properties, allows it to bury itself, orient
itself, or something? Or is this organically
mediated through musculature, you see?
Interesting, isn't it, too? So I think all kinds of
little observations fit together sometimes. And
this is the case of the breakwater point, where
loads of small observations lead you in some
direction or another. Well, I was also thinking
about the concept of bringing down icebergs to
furnish fresh water. How did that occur to me?
Well, I want to know both how it occurred to you, and
then I want your reaction. I remember how it
occurred to me exactly. I was preparing, there was
quite a bit of interest many years ago, and it keeps
coming back periodically, of an underwater
pipeline for Southern California to get its water
from, God knows, Oregon, Washington, British
Columbia, Alaska. What a stupid idea in my way of
thinking. I mean, you don't know what's going on
down there well enough. There are landslides,
there are instabilities. There are all kinds of
things, ships dropping their anchors and on and
on. But nevertheless, you can make the following
calculation. Let's say California needs 5
million acre feet of water a year. OK, you can start
to optimize this. You can make a pipeline. Now, the
power to drive that water down that pipeline
doesn't come free. Even though you build a dam up
there somewhere, you could have made electricity
out of it, you see, rather than driving water. So
you think, well, I will optimize it. very rapidly
realized that, presently, optimization, just
from the standpoint of loss, of frictional loss,
comes with bigger and bigger pipelines. And
presently, you have a pipeline that has all the 5
million acre feet in it. Well, now you might as well
shirk it up more and just roll it into the ocean and
tow it down. Now you begin to optimize that. It's a
different concept. Well, I was preparing very
early in my days in the scripts, was preparing a
talk about the water problem. And one of the things
I wanted to look at was the pipeline. And when I
optimized this thing, I came out with something
that was half a mile in diameter and five miles long
or some such a thing. And it was optimum towing
size. And I thought, Jesus, such things exist.
They're the secondary tabular icebergs of the
South Atlantic. Let's see how these go. What would
be the milling rate? What would be the thing? And I
made some calculations, and of course you come up
with this interesting case that's a tome north
from Antarctica. You really tome to the east like
mad
because of their rotation and Coriolis force, if
you wish. And so these more recent studies by the
Rand Corporation and so on on it... rather
thorough studies, go into the Coriolis force
effect
in a rather erudite fashion. But of course, the
simplest concept in the world gives you exactly
the same answer. It just says you've got to get that
iceberg going 1,000 miles an hour to get it, not in
respect to the water, but in respect to the fixed
reference plane, to get it over the equator. you
got to tow it to the east to do this you got to get it
going a thousand miles an hour to the east to
uh to well to the west sorry you got to get it going a
thousand miles an hour to the west to get over the
equator and
you got to tow essentially westwardly That's
correct, isn't it? Good God, let's see. I always
have to go through this thing. You've got to tow it
to the east. Good heavens, yes. I was rotated there
for a second. You have to tow it to the east. You have
to get it going 1,000 miles an hour to bring it
essentially to the velocity of the Earth. Now,
when I first remember reading about concepts of
pulling icebergs to Southern California, Now, I
remember scientists making fun, in fact, of sort
of jiving this concept, if I may use that word. How
do you feel as if when you introduce these ideas
that long ago and it seems to be reaffirmed here in
the present in terms of water shortages and
ecological clashes? Well, I don't think we'll
ever do it in California. You don't think you'll
ever do it? No. Some other country I'll do it. It's
too outlandish. The United States has lost a sense
of adventure. I had to examine that and examine
that until hell froze over. Worry about fogs and
worry about fresh water influences and worry
about this and that. Never tried. What do you
attribute the loss of adventure to? Oh,
I guess sort of a degree of senescence, I would
guess.
I don't know. You could erect a thousand theories
on this, I think. We start out with a great deal of
hybrid vigor in the United States. We have people
of all sorts of social proclivities mixing
together. And to some degree, they don't mix
anymore, you see. And I believe in heterosis. That
is the strength of hybridization. And it only goes
a generation or two, don't forget. Well, that may
be it. Or it may be we're in the same position as a
person on Easy Street.
Keep your finger on your number, as it were. Don't
take any chances. There are the real concerns of
the environmentalists, of course. You have to
look at these things. They're real. You can't kill
off things in vast numbers. But we've gone
overboard on that, and it's a pendulum-swinging
problem. It may swing back again. But I think that
we can't do this sort of thing anymore in the United
States. We can't. We can't.
Such a approach takes the agreement of a lot of
people that you do need the water. You're going to
do it. You're going to take some environmental
losses. You try to minimize those. And it's too
controversial. The congressman has to take the
path of least irritation rather than the path of
rationality. Man, as long as I have you here on the
environment, I had some questions to ask you
later. May I ask them now? Nuclear power. Carry on.
You've just been through a referendum here in
California. Do you think referendums on nuclear
power are essentially good things? Referendums
in which way? Well. You mean against or for?
Against or for. I just, do you think that the public
ought to make these kinds of decisions concerning
the environment? That's what I'm trying to find
out. Well, of course.
In the United States, we've fallen into the
advocative position and of our decisions are made
by a series of advocates.
And this is kind of a long story. I don't want to get
into it too deeply. But there's
obviously a disparity between the scientific
approach and the approach of advocacy.
takes only that evidence that supports his
position. That's the way the advocate does. The
scientist is forced into this system to advise.
And the advocate of the system says you're either
with us or against us in no intermediate way. The
scientist is unable to express his reservations.
He's got to be gung-ho. got to be in that direction
or against that direction, one or the other, no
ifs, ands, or buts. And this is essentially an
anathema to a scientist who really wants to
evaluate things. You can't be all for or all
against. This way, a budding scientist has such a
hell of a problem with true, false, and questions.
There aren't any true-false questions. They're
answered true and false. They're always
reservations one way or another. He either
balances the reservations in which he probably
fails, or he knows what the hell stupid answer the
instructor really thinks is correct. And that's
the guy that makes it. But you see, once he gets out
into the real world and is asked for advice, he
really can't do that and preserve his scientific
equilibrium. And so I think we get into this
position of
the scientist being essentially in a hopeless
posture as far as advising the public. The public
can't see the uncertainties. And if he expresses
the uncertainties, then he's against it,
whatever. Well, in the case of nuclear power,
It's a long argument. There are risks to
everything, obviously.
I was out in the Pacific and saw the explosion of the
Great Age bombs, many of them, 28 or something
nuclear shots I've seen. I've seen a vast amount of
radioactivity thrown into the coral atolls. The
effect of it has been Almost unobservable. The
ocean has an immense resiliency and capacity.
Exactly what a major spill would be from a nuclear
power plant or a failure of containment of fuel, I
really haven't looked into. Clearly, you'd have
some area that would be off limits. But it can't be a
disaster, you see. It can't be a vast disaster.
But of course, you see, then again, we're up
against the other problem of the utilities always
plan for growth of existing areas. So we have this
self-fulfilling forecast in which You want the
power plant to supply power for the city of Los
Angeles because the city of Los Angeles is going to
grow, and then that's the only place it can grow
because that's the only place there's power, and
so on. You know, the idiotic situation we're in. I
would like to see power sources put in places where
there aren't anybody. Then they might live there
instead of, well, if they want to all live in Los
Angeles, that's fine with me. It leaves other
places a little freer. But our... The number of
forces that tend to concentrate us into these
areas are insensate forces. There are many of
them. One is the preparation for utilities.
That's one. The other is, of course, loan and
insurance policy and things of this nature. You
can't go out in the back country and build a house.
You can't get a loan on it. You don't understand.
We're forced then to put these nuclear power
plants, if we're going to put them, very close to
highly utilized coastlines.
And intervening into a system that's already has
very dense use. Under those circumstances, that
may be undesirable. If we put one, if this were a
free world really, planning the accommodation of
man and this planet together, why wouldn't we put
one down in Baja, California somewhere?
I both admire that and resent that. I don't want any
power plants in Baja, California or any place in
the wilderness, I don't think. I know that makes
sense ecologically, what has to be done.
Well, as long as I have you on resilience of ocean, I
read in Newsweek magazine last night, this is like
the fourth or fifth time I've read that, where
Jacques Cousteau, a naturalist, says in 30 years
the ocean would be dead. Do you resent that as a
scientist?
Let's keep that off the record. I don't want to be
sued.
until I get my defense fund together. All right.
I'll rephrase the question another way, then, I
may, without involving any names. I assume you
believe the ocean is amazingly resilient in terms
of recovery.
Do you think that the ocean should be exploited
more, move into things like mariculture,
Well, let's stop at the first statement.
Exploitationist traps has the wrong
connotation. It certainly should be utilized
more and with good sense, rationality, and
dignity. I think it can be a great deal more. We know
a great deal more about it than we did 30 years ago.
I've published rather extensively on exactly the
same business, including Cousteau, if you wish.
And it's right here.
You probably have that. Yeah. And you don't have a
match, do you? No.
You may, for my answer about Christou, you can read
that into the record right there. Okay. While I
find a match.
Middle paragraph. Yeah, right. As a matter of
fact, I had looked at that, and that was one of the
things that interested me last night vis-a-vis
this. Well,
I assume you believe this sort of adverse
publicity towards utilization of the ocean
affects only the process of oceanographers?
Affects what? that it has a negative reaction upon
oceanographers, that this kind of public opinion
that these sorts of things stir up affects your
work? Well, sure, of course. I
don't really quite know how to answer that
question, but let me say that I myself and a great
number of other oceanographers have have devoted
a great deal of their lives trying to solve
problems that society has in some way or another
enunciated, that it said that they were important
problems.
In several of these cases, we've solved these
problems and solved them exquisitely. I mean,
much better than one would have expected they
could have been solved. The understanding of the
pelagic fisheries versus the California
current, for instance, I think is understood much
better than anybody 20 years ago would have
expected was ever obtainable. We understand
really something about the total nature of the
population, how it fluctuates, what the
interrelationships are, and what it's been like
for 2,000 years. We don't. I think we really
understand that.
And yet... Public opinion is set up at a number of
thoughtless people who keep saying, don't let the
anchovy go as the sardine did, overfishing, on and
on, and not allow the proper utilization of this
environment. Now, what you tend to leave behind
you here is the debris of dedicated scientists who
were trying to serve society. There's not much to
ask a society to be able to serve it with the best of
your intelligence. Society should be set up in
such a way that you can.
I think the desalination problem, fisheries
problems have left behind them in their wake a
great deal of disillusioned people who have tried
to serve society, advise it, and then find not that
society doesn't act the way they thought it should
act, but that doesn't even consider the findings
in the decisions. Doesn't even consider them.
That's the denouement, isn't it? That's the
ultimate coup d'etat. And
so now you find them doing their own thing. Why the
hell should they try to serve society? I mean,
science is interesting. It's a career. Why not
just do it? Do the things you want to do. Don't try to
serve it. It doesn't pay attention to you. See,
it's not a question that you say, well, there's
600,000 tons of anchovies that you ought to be able
to take out here, maybe a million tons, and enrich
California
to a considerable extent, learn a great deal more
about the utilization of this part of the food web,
and so forth, that you should do this. The fact that
society doesn't do that and has
archaic legislation that doesn't allow it to do
it, and an engraved public opinion that will not
allow it to do it. That's not the question that they
didn't do it, but that they don't even consider the
findings, that the people who act on these are
acting only on the basis of the advocates'
of the advocates who argue, the public advocates
that argue on one side and don't even consider the
evidence. So you find yourself in the position of
having devoted quite a bit of your life to really
looking into attempting to advise society in
these practical utilizations of the ocean and
then finding that, not that your findings are not
acted on, but rather that your findings are not
even considered. in the evidence, in the
decisions. Quite a disappointment.